==================
instack-undercloud
==================

.. _instack-undercloud_9.1.0:

9.1.0
=====

.. _instack-undercloud_9.1.0_New Features:

New Features
------------

.. releasenotes/notes/insecure_registries-58ffd10f75112b31.yaml @ b'2ee1ebfd34d72a91311ed7683c272b070fde61ea'

- Introduce docker_insecure_registries that is an array of host/port
  combiniations of docker insecure registries. The default value will
  be the previous parameter that were hardcoded, but now we can easily
  override it in undercloud.conf.


.. _instack-undercloud_9.1.0_Deprecation Notes:

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

.. releasenotes/notes/deprecate_auth_uri_parameter-545d2c29c84c7c64.yaml @ b'be9bc031ff14cef29b2daa9d138272359f46e5d6'

- auth_uri is depreacted and will be removed in a future release. Please, use www_authenticate_uri instead.

.. releasenotes/notes/deprecate_instack-083e17fb09f07fa0.yaml @ b'8c30db7218949be62026c15f90e416b5f2448e93'

- instack-undercloud is deprecated in Rocky cycle and is replaced by
  the containerized undercloud efforts in python-tripleoclient.


.. _instack-undercloud_9.0.0:

9.0.0
=====

.. _instack-undercloud_9.0.0_New Features:

New Features
------------

.. releasenotes/notes/networking-baremetal-ml2-4b50d6bab617c00c.yaml @ b'28ff631ef0c7194bed2db84f722960ab0c4b70bb'

- The undercloud now uses the ``baremetal`` neutron ML2 mechanism driver, and the l2 agent ironic-neutron-agent. This enables the possibility to use neutron routed networks in the undercloud.


.. _instack-undercloud_9.0.0_Upgrade Notes:

Upgrade Notes
-------------

.. releasenotes/notes/migrate-to-hardware-types-df0b6a3bd0f818fc.yaml @ b'3756d3d60f50c8f84639bea0410c014e5c1cb307'

- During an upgrade to this release, a migration of all nodes from classic
  drivers to hardware types will be attempted. For some nodes it may result
  in non-supported optional interfaces (like "agent" RAID or shellinabox
  console) to be reset to their no-op implementations (like "no-raid" RAID or
  "no-console" console). Nodes that cannot be upgraded will be skipped.
  Manual upgrade will be required, since the classic drivers may be removed
  in the Rocky release.


.. _instack-undercloud_9.0.0_Security Issues:

Security Issues
---------------

.. releasenotes/notes/TLS-by-default-bc12660c12ba7ab1.yaml @ b'41f2694d13386a2c533ca300f109afc2fc2f0595'

- TLS is now used by default for the public endpoints. This is done through
  the generate_service_certificates option, which now defaults to 'True'.

.. releasenotes/notes/memcached_hardening-3d6984c9b6e5f3f3.yaml @ b'a52ba3e9a7359a31abce0bba6b00f907ca85a3fa'

- Restrict memcached service to TCP and localhost network (CVE-2018-1000115).


.. _instack-undercloud_9.0.0_Bug Fixes:

Bug Fixes
---------

.. releasenotes/notes/change-cert-precedence-e1926868d137aa1d.yaml @ b'9fc6b985902561a33370fd3e4f53081491ccf0ae'

- The user-provided certificate (via the undercloud_service_certificate
  option) now takes precedence over the autogenerated certificate (which is
  created via the generate_service_certificate option)

.. releasenotes/notes/ironic-inspector-use-pxe-filter-dnsmasq-611a69bc12011989.yaml @ b'5e1a4d9f0bbc2afa98727cf192fc174194abc8e8'

- Using the ``dnsmasq`` PXE filter for inspection fixes bug

